# Detecting Potential Risk of Parkinson's Disease through accelerometery using OOP, MVC, and a 1D-CNN training pipeline for binary classification.

Award Categories:

Social Good.
  - We are determined to develop a pipeline with a UI as a concept to detect Parkinson's disease in individuals through hand movements.
  - Such technology can be used to automate clinical workflows and reduce time spent with high value assets such as doctors to increase both     economic and clinical efficiency in hospitals.

What external modules you used (if any) and how to install them:
  
  Used terminal & pip install in an environment to install:
  - from cmu_graphics import *
  - from tensorflow.keras.models import load_model
  - import threading
  - import serial
  - import time
  - import numpy as np
  - import pickle
  - import sklearn
  
How to run your program:

- Plug in the arduino to your computer's port. Note that this code was built for MacBook, so the port uses usbModem. This can be switched in the app.py code. Then, strap the arduino to your upper hand using tape or whatever you feel comfortable with.
- When plugged in, run the code app.py in your IDE. Ensure you have the files 'parkinsonsEye.keras' and 'labelEncoder.pkl' downloaded, as these are the primary components of the machine learning algorithm.
- Press begin on the app, and it will prompt you to press the button on the arduino device. This button is the blue one sticking out to the side. When pressed, the app will begin assessing tremor patterns in your hand. It will provide a percentage probability of your predicted Parkinson's tremors every second for ten seconds.
- At the end, it will display a graph of the XYZ acceleration of your hand movements, with the average probability of your predicted Parkinson's alongside the standard deviation.
- You can click begin again to try again. Note that any deliberate vibration or fluttering at around 3-7 Hz will affect the output of the code.

A General description of your program:

- First, a machine learning pipeline was trained to detect Parkinson's tremors. The process can be found in the trainingPipeline folder of the repo. Essentially, the accelerometer was used alongside a vibecoded C++ Arduino code to generate 100 samples of XYZ acceleration data every second. Such samples were generated by carefully studying Parkinson's tremors and duplicating them at approximately 6 Hz. This output was saved in JSON format, in which 150 seconds of non-parkinson's was measured and 150 seconds of parkinson's was measured, hence feeding the data input to the training pipeline approximately, 150 seconds * 100 samples/second * 3 values/sample * 2 classes = 90,000 values. 
- These values were all fed into a multi-layered 1D convolutional neural network, which was trained to have a test accuracy of 0.9833.
- The parkinsonsEye.keras model was downloaded along iwth the encoded labels file, which is used in the app itself.
- The app uses MVC in combination with classes to respond to a button press on the device, collect and output the current second's probability of Parkinson's based on movement, and at the end draws a graph with all of the data (sampled at 20 Hz instead of 100 Hz due to resolution).
- When begin is pressed again, a new instance of the ParkinsonsDataCollector is created, allowing for fully new detection for the next patient.
